Add Promscale quick start (#1227)
timescale/docs: promscale/quick-start.md

# Quick Start with Promscale
You can use Docker Compose to get started with Promscale. Docker Compose is a
tool for running multi-container applications on Docker defined in the compose
file format. A compose file is used to define how the one or more containers
that make up your application are configured. 

## Before you begin
* Ensure that you have [installed Docker Compose][docker-compose].
* Create a directory named `docker-compose`.

## Install Promscale with Docker Compose
To install Promscale with Docker Compose you need to create a compose file and define the services and then run the Docker Compose.

> ### Creating a compose file and defining the services

Reviewer: @VineethReddy02 why are you telling people to create a docker compose file? Why aren't we providing one directly so folks only need to do docker-compose up and they are done?

# Quick Start with Promscale
Use Docker Compose to learn how Promscale is a single data store for your
metrics and traces with full Prometheus and OpenTelemetry support, seamless

> integration with Grafana and Jaeger.  

Reviewer 2: I agree with you about the salesy bit. There is no background information because my understanding was that a quick start is for domain experts and proving information about why docker-compose was or what docker-compose was not necessary. May be we can make this better.

> integration with Grafana and Jaeger.  

Reviewer 3: That may or may not be true, but we also can't guarantee that only those people will be reading it! Especially since it's the first child page. Let's give some orientation here, so that people can easily self-identify if the page is for them or not.

## Before you begin
* Ensure that you have [installed Docker Compose][docker-compose].

## Install Promscale with Docker Compose
To install Promscale with Docker Compose clone the Promscale [repository][gh-promscale] and then run the Docker Compose. The `docker-compose` directory contains the services for the following components:
* Promscale for analytics and long term storage of metrics and traces
* Prometheus and Node exporter for metrics

> * OpenTelemetry collector, demo applications and Grafana for traces and visualisation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* OpenTelemetry collector, demonstration applications, and Grafana for traces and visualization
```

### Installing Promscale with Docker Compose

<procedure>

1. Clone the repository that defines the services for Promscale:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:timescale/promscale.git
   ```

> 1. Change to `promscale-demo` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Change to the `promscale-demo` directory:
```

   ```bash
   cd docker-compose/promscale-demo
   ```

> 1. Run Promscale on Docker Compose:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Use Docker Compose to run Promscale:
```

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```  

</procedure >

## Explore Promscale

> 
> After Promscale is up and running you can explore the services installed in
> Docker Compose, such as Grafana. View the data sources that are configured to
> Promscale and the dashboards for trace data. Access Grafana on the browser
> `http://localhost:3000` as `admin` user using the password `admin`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you have Promscale up and running, you can explore the services installed 
by Docker Compose. For example, you can use Grafana to see the data sources 
that are configured for Promscale, and use Grafana dashboards to visualize trace 
data. Access Grafana by navigating to `http://localhost:3000` in your web browser, 
and log in as `admin` with the password `admin`.
```

Reviewer 3: This paragraph doesn't really match the heading. The heading is about exploring Promscale, while the para is all about Grafana. Why not list out a few different things here, rather than just the Grafana bits? Or, alternatively, change the heading to "Use Grafana with Promscale" or similar.

### Data sources

> The three data sources that are configured to Promscale are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The data sources that are configured for Promscale are:
```

> * Promscale-Metrics: PromQL query endpoint
> * Promscale-Traces: Jaeger query endpoint
> * Promscale-SQL: SQL query endpoint for both metrics and traces.

Reviewer 3: Do these need markup?

```suggestion
* Promscale-Metrics: PromQL query endpoint
* Promscale-Traces: Jaeger query endpoint
* Promscale-SQL: SQL query endpoint for both metrics and traces
```

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/promscale-grafana-datasource-qsg.png" alt="Promscale data sources"/>

> ### APM Dashboards

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Performance monitoring dashboards
```

> With Promscale you get the APM like experience from trace data. View some 
> of the dashboards that are pre-configured in docker-compose.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use Promscale for performance monitoring using trace data. 
The Docker Compose tool includes some pre-configured dashboards 
for you to explore.
<!--- Add instructions here -->
```

I don't think there's any real value to using the APM acronym if we're not actually talking about it directly ("APM-like"). It's just going to confuse people who don't know what it is (which includes me, I had to go and look it up).

# Promscale quick start

> Use Docker Compose to learn how Promscale is a single data store for your
> metrics and traces with full Prometheus and OpenTelemetry support, including seamless
> integration with Grafana and Jaeger.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section gets you up and running quickly with Promscale. It uses the Docker Compose tool to install everything you need to explore how Promscale can be used as a single data store for your
metrics and traces with full Prometheus and OpenTelemetry support. It also includes some additional pre-configured tooling for you to get familiar with additional Promscale functionality, such as performance monitoring and visualization tools.  
```

Reviewer 3: I would also add a para afterwards saying something like "To learn more about how Promscale can improve your observability environment, see [About Promscale]. For instructions on installing Promscale directly, see [Installing Promscale]."

# Promscale quick start
You can use Docker Compose to easily run Promscale in an isolated environment built
with Docker containers. This quick-start guide demonstrates how to use Compose to set
up and run Promscale as a single data store for your metrics and traces with full Prometheus
and OpenTelemetry support, including seamless integration with Grafana and Jaeger.  

Before you begin, make sure that you have [installed Docker Compose][docker-compose].

## Install Promscale with Docker Compose
To install Promscale with Docker Compose, you need to start by cloning the Promscale 
[repository][gh-promscale], and then using the Docker Compose tool to install it. The 

> `docker-compose` directory contains the services for the following components:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`docker-compose` directory contains services for these components:
```

# Promscale quick start
You can use Docker Compose to easily run Promscale in an isolated environment built
with Docker containers. This quick start guide demonstrates how to use Compose to set
up and run Promscale as a single data store for your metrics and traces with full Prometheus
and OpenTelemetry support. It also includes some additional pre-configured tooling for you
to get familiar with additional Promscale features, such as performance monitoring and
visualization tools.

To learn more about how Promscale can improve your observability environment, see
[About Promscale][about-promscale]. For instructions on installing Promscale directly, see
[Installing Promscale][install-promscale].

Before you begin, make sure that you have [installed Docker Compose][docker-compose].

## Install Promscale with Docker Compose
To install Promscale with Docker Compose, you need to start by cloning the Promscale 
[repository][gh-promscale], and then using the Docker Compose tool to install it. The 
`docker-compose` directory contains services for these components:
* Promscale for analytics and long term storage of metrics and traces
* Prometheus and Node exporter for metrics

> * OpenTelemetry collector, demonstration applications, and Grafana for traces and visualization

Author: Jaeger Query (i.e. UI component) is also included in docker-compose. Here is the compose file: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/blob/master/docker-compose/promscale-demo/docker-compose.yaml

### Installing Promscale with Docker Compose

<procedure>

1. Clone the repository that defines the services for Promscale:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:timescale/promscale.git
   ```
1. Change to the `promscale-demo` directory:
   ```bash
   cd promscale/docker-compose/promscale-demo
   ```
1. Use Docker Compose to run Promscale:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```  

</procedure >

> ## Explore Promscale

Reviewer: "Explore data in Promscale" maybe?

When you have Promscale up and running, you can explore the services installed 
by Docker Compose. For example, you can use Grafana to see the data sources 
that are configured for Promscale, and use Grafana dashboards to visualize trace 
data. Access Grafana by navigating to `http://localhost:3000` in your web browser, 
and log in as `admin` with the password `admin`.

### Data sources
The data sources that are configured for Promscale are:

> * Promscale-Metrics: PromQL query endpoint

Reviewer: Not a big deal, but I would like us to be consistent with how we name the data sources across all our products.

I believe in our docs and tobs we use about Promscale-PromQL, Promscale-Jaeger and Promscale-SQL.

Author: We use the same naming convention and will change the name accordingly.

* Promscale-Traces: Jaeger query endpoint
* Promscale-SQL: SQL query endpoint for both metrics and traces

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/promscale-grafana-datasource-qsg.png" alt="Promscale data sources"/>

> ### Performance monitoring dashboards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Application performance monitoring dashboards
```

> You can use Promscale for performance monitoring using trace data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Promscale for application/service performance monitoring using trace data. 
```

average duration per request, p90 latency and error rate. Click the service name
to view the service level metrics.
<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-services-overview-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the overview of services"/>

#### Slowest requests
View the top 50 slowest requests across the services with relevant traceID.
Click the traceID for trace vilsualization of slowest request.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-slowest-traces-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the slowest requests across the services"/>

#### Rate Error Duration metrics
View the Rate, Error, Duration (RED) metrics specific to a service to understand
the number of requests a service provides per second, the number of failed
requests per second, the amount of time it takes to process a request.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-red-metrics-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the RED metrics graphs specific to a service"/>

#### Upstream dependencies

> View the upstream dependencies in other words, the origin of all the requests that are
> received by a specific service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View the upstream dependencies for the selected service and operation. In other words, view a map of
all the services and operations that were called across all requests before the selected service and 
operation was called. This helps identify unexpected behaviors like calls between services and operations
that were not part of the original design. It also accelerates the investigation of the root cause of changes
in the RED metrics for the selected service and operation. For example, if there is a significant increase in
the number of requests a particular operation called from many different services is receiving, you can
track down which service and operation is at the origin of that increase.
```

### Application performance monitoring dashboards
You can use Promscale for application/service performance monitoring using trace data. 
The Docker Compose tool includes some pre-configured dashboards 
for you to explore.

#### Overview of services
View all the services with service name, number of requests served per second,
average and p90 request duration and error rate. Click the service name
to view the service level metrics.
<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-services-overview-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the overview of services"/>

#### Slowest requests
View the top 50 slowest requests across all services with their corresponding traceID.
Click the traceID to access the gantt chart view of the corresponding trace.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-slowest-traces-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the slowest requests across the services"/>

#### Rate Error Duration metrics

> View the Rate, Error, Duration (RED) metrics specific to a service to understand

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
View the rate, error, and duration (RED) metrics specific to a service to understand
```

the number of requests per second served by a service, the number of failed

> requests per second, the amount of time it takes to process requests.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
requests per second, and the amount of time it takes to process requests.
```

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-red-metrics-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the RED metrics graphs specific to a service"/>

#### Upstream dependencies

> View the upstream dependencies for the selected service and operation. In other words, view a map of
> all the services and operations that were called across all requests before the selected service and 
> operation was called. This helps identify unexpected behaviors like calls between services and operations
> that were not part of the original design. It also accelerates the investigation of the root cause of changes
> in the RED metrics for the selected service and operation. For example, if there is a significant increase in
> the number of requests a particular operation called from many different services is receiving, you can
> track down which service and operation is at the origin of that increase.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can view the upstream dependencies for the selected service and operation. 
This allows you to see a map of all the services and operations called across all 
requests, before you called the selected service and operation. This helps identify 
unexpected behaviors, such as calls between services and operations that were 
not part of the original design. It also makes it faster to investigate the root cause 
of changes in RED metrics for the selected service and operation. For example, 
if there is a significant increase in the number of requests a particular operation 
called from many different services is receiving, you can track down which 
service and operation is at the origin of that increase.
```

> <img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-upstream-dependency-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the upstream dependencies specific to a service"/>

Reviewer 3: This image is returning access denied. Have you made it public in s3?

Reviewer 2: Thank you!!! Just enabled read access.

# Promscale quick start
You can use Docker Compose to easily run Promscale in an isolated environment built
with Docker containers. This quick start guide demonstrates how to use Docker Compose to set
up and run Promscale as a single data store for your metrics and traces with full Prometheus
and OpenTelemetry support. It also includes some additional pre-configured tooling for you
to get familiar with additional Promscale features, such as performance monitoring and
visualization tools.

To learn more about how Promscale can improve your observability stack, see
[About Promscale][about-promscale]. For instructions on installing Promscale directly, see
[Installing Promscale][install-promscale].

Before you begin, make sure that you have [installed Docker Compose][docker-compose].

## Install Promscale with Docker Compose
To install Promscale with Docker Compose, you need to start by cloning the Promscale 
[repository][gh-promscale], and then using the Docker Compose tool to install it. The 
`docker-compose` directory contains services for these components:
* Promscale for analytics and long term storage of metrics and traces

> * Prometheus and Node exporter for metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Prometheus with the node exporter to generate and collect metrics
```

> * OpenTelemetry collector, demonstration applications, Jaeger query and Grafana for traces and visualization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A microservices application and the OpenTelemetry Collector to generate and collect traces
* Grafana and Jaeger to visualize metrics and traces
```

### Installing Promscale with Docker Compose

<procedure>

1. Clone the repository that defines the services for Promscale:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:timescale/promscale.git
   ```
1. Change to the `promscale-demo` directory:
   ```bash
   cd promscale/docker-compose/promscale-demo
   ```
1. Use Docker Compose to run Promscale:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```  

</procedure >

> ## Explore data in Promscale

Reviewer: We have to add Jaeger here. At the very least just provide the url. Also make the Jaeger url and the Grafana url links, so folks can just click instead of having to copy and paste.

# Promscale quick start
You can use Docker Compose to easily run Promscale in an isolated environment built
with Docker containers. This quick start guide demonstrates how to use Docker Compose to set

> up and run Promscale as unified metric and trace observability backend for Prometheus,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
up and run Promscale as a unified metric and trace observability backend for Prometheus,
```

[repository][gh-promscale], and then use the Docker Compose tool to install it. The 
`docker-compose` directory contains services for these components:
* Promscale for analytics and long term storage of metrics and traces
* Prometheus with the node exporter to generate and collect metrics
* A microservices application and the OpenTelemetry Collector to generate and collect traces
* Grafana and Jaeger to visualize metrics and traces

### Installing Promscale with Docker Compose

<procedure>

1. Clone the repository that defines the services for Promscale:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:timescale/promscale.git
   ```
1. Change to the `promscale-demo` directory:
   ```bash
   cd promscale/docker-compose/promscale-demo
   ```
1. Use Docker Compose to run Promscale:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```  

</procedure >

## Explore data in Promscale
When you have Promscale up and running, you can explore the services installed 
by Docker Compose. For example, you can use Grafana to see the data sources 
that are configured for Promscale, and use Grafana dashboards to visualize trace 
data. Access Grafana by navigating to `http://localhost:3000` in your web browser, 

> and log in as `admin` with the password `admin` and Access Jaeger Query by navigating
> to `http://localhost:16686`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and log in as `admin` with the password `admin`. Access Jaeger by navigating to
`http://localhost:16686`.
```

### Data sources
The data sources that are configured for Promscale are:
* Promscale-PromQL: PromQL query endpoint
* Promscale-Tracing: Jaeger query endpoint
* Promscale-SQL: SQL query endpoint for both metrics and traces

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/promscale-grafana-datasource-qsg.png" alt="Promscale data sources"/>

### Application performance monitoring dashboards
You can use Promscale for application/service performance monitoring using trace data. 

> The Docker Compose tool includes some pre-configured dashboards 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Docker Compose configuration includes some pre-configured dashboards 
```

#### Slowest requests
View the top 50 slowest requests across all services with their corresponding traceID.
Click the traceID to access the gantt chart view of the corresponding trace.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-slowest-traces-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the slowest requests across the services"/>

#### Rate, error, and duration metrics
View the rate, error, and duration (RED) metrics specific to a service to understand
the number of requests per second served by a service, the number of failed
requests per second, and the amount of time it takes to process requests.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/apm-red-metrics-dashboard.png" alt="A dashboard representing the RED metrics graphs specific to a service"/>

#### Upstream dependencies
You can view the upstream dependencies for the selected service and operation. 
This allows you to see a map of all the services and operations called across all 

> requests, before you called the selected service and operation. This helps identify 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requests, before the selected service and operation is called. This helps identify 
```
